00:00:00 - 00:00:59
Imagine if Claude code was faster, cheaper, and incredibly accurate. Graphify just solved Claude code's biggest problem. And it makes all of this possible by creating a knowledge graph of any project for Claude to use. And in this video, I'll show you exactly how to use it and how you can 10x beyond this by having it within an agentic operating system, even if you've never used it before, unlocking capabilities that nobody else is using right now. And if you're new, I'm Jack. I built some of

00:00:30 - 00:01:22
my last tech startups with a gazillion customers. Now I'm building my own AI businesses. And actually I hit the stuff that actually works. So if you haven't already, grab that beautiful coffee and let's dive straight in. So Graphify creates this beautiful overview of all of your projects, or if you're using it within an agentic operating system, like I'm going to show you in this video, it takes it to a completely new level. But we have to actually start by understanding what Graphify physically

00:00:56 - 00:01:45
is. In a nutshell, what Graphify does is gives Claude code a map. What do I mean by that? Well, let's say for example that every code base represents a foreign country. Let's say we go to France or Germany. Without it, we have to learn a language, we kind of have to translate it. But think of Graphify is the ability to speak any language in any country. You can communicate a lot faster, you can understand exactly what's going on, and it just reduces any latency. But it does a lot more than

00:01:21 - 00:02:13
that, but it really helps you understand conceptually what Graphify is doing. So think of it like this. We have code. So this could be any application we've got. It could be the agentic operating system, the thing that you're building. And in effect of what happens is Graphify understands the relationships of all the components within it that makes it easier, faster, better for Claude to talk to it. Meaning it spends way less tokens when you actually have a conversation with it. I actually covered

00:01:47 - 00:02:37
it on the channel over a month ago, but I want to go deeper in it today to show you exactly how it can upgrade your setup. At the end of the day, it reads, not summarizes. It clusters things into modules. It ranks what it calls the god nodes of the individual project, which are the load-bearing files, and then it labels facts versus guesses, things that it actually extracts and things that it infers from its order. Now, what does a map actually physically help us do? Well, number one is we get instantly

00:02:12 - 00:03:05
orientated with anything. So, say you want to download ClaudeBot or you want to download Hermes, you can actually talk to this straight away and understand what's going on. You get grounded answers, you can understand and visualize the impact of all the inter basically all the interconnections. You can query it instead of using grep, which is basically like a search. It is always fresh, and it isn't just code, you get comprehensive understanding beyond what the code is actually about. So, again, instant orientation, grounded

00:02:38 - 00:03:29
answers, blast radius, every dependency before you start editing it. For example, in the community I have, I give away this Claude code and Hermes operating system. Maybe you want to add things to it. Well, using GraphiFi lets you understand all of the interdependencies within this code, so you know exactly what affects everything else without spending a googolplexian understanding and paying to do that. That's how freaking cool it is, and it's always fresh. Now, the real key thing that you need to understand before we

00:03:04 - 00:03:49
set this up is that rereading actually is the tax that we're saving here. Without the map, it skims the whole repo every single conversation or it just sits in the context. But with the map, we can actually answer from summaries, which is super beneficial, and every session compounds. So, to set it up, we head over to this GitHub repo, and I'm just going to go ahead and copy the code, and then let's you straight over to Claude code. Brilliant. And within Claude code, you're going to say, "Hey

00:03:26 - 00:04:12
there, dude." Dude is very important. I want to go ahead, I want you to clone this repo, and I'd like you to open up my Let's call this open up Hermes as a test project, and basically open up the GraphiFi window. Okay, send this one off. I should say, "Dude, it is very, very important." And then you basically just drop in the URL. Now, if you're listening to this and thinking, "Jack, this sounds to me like you're speaking Japanese." I have got a full Claude code

00:03:49 - 00:04:34
course, I'll put a link down below. I take you from foundation setup through to building beautiful websites, powerful features, and stuff I have never shared on YouTube. I get messages about this daily. It is the most comprehensive thing I have ever built. It lives I update it all the time. You get this and you also get access to the big beautiful operating system. You can just immediately access it. So, I'll put a link down below so you can grab that if that would be beneficial for you. Now,

00:04:12 - 00:05:03
what's going to happen here is Claude is basically going to download it. It's already got the repo which is fine. And then what it will do is index that particular file. So, the way this works is you can basically when you download the Graph i Skill is you can graph i so to speak any particular project that you've got and then it just enables you to query that project um in a much more meaningful way. You understand the relationships and interdependencies of it rather than just looking at flat code

00:04:37 - 00:05:25
and it just makes the whole experience way better. And when done, this is the Hermes system. You can see now I've got all the interactive graphs here. Now, it's basically a big beautiful circle. Kind of looks like planet Earth to some extent, right? Shows you all the communities. Realistically though, this is just a kind of visuality thing. I can unlink communities if I want to. But you can generally see that when we look at this graph, what's helpful to understand is the clustering uh where all the

00:05:01 - 00:05:49
things actually link together. But the real magic happens when you give it a prompt. So, I might come back and say, "Hey there, I'd like to go ahead and summarize what this repo is using the Graph i Skill." Okay, go ahead and this is an example now whenever you're basically talking about any repo, we can use this Graph i Skill to drastically cut our costs out. And then just like that, we've got a basic summation from Claude code explaining the differences about it and it's understood all of that

00:05:25 - 00:06:11
which is great information. And it's used Graph i to go ahead and do that. You can just compare by the way using Graph i and not Graph i and you will understand the difference as to why this actually saves you so much time. But not only does it save you time, it saves cost, it's just a more effective way of talking to and understanding any kind of code base which is a really important skill. But we can take it one step further. Now, here is the Agentech operating system. Now, the interesting

00:05:48 - 00:06:37
thing about this operating system, as you know, it connects to many other things. It lets us bring in everything from Hermes, everything doing with Claude code, anti-gravity codex. Everything is in one location. I can see my spend. I can see my skills. I It dreams for me overnight to find improvements based on our chat history. It does a lot of incredible beautiful things that just saves lots of time. I've got a lot of videos on it on the channel. But, the really interesting thing for us here that we can do is we

00:06:12 - 00:06:54
can actually now look at different coding graphs that I've kind of ingested here and ask questions about it. Say for example, you want to connect this to Hermes, you can do it. Now, check this out. I've got the Claude code operating system here. I can now see on the right-hand side, look. Here's a number of files, number of links, number of clauses. I get these deep this detailed information, as well as how much money I'm actually going to be saving per conversation in dollars and cents. And

00:06:33 - 00:07:20
what's really cool is you can actually then have these quicker fire things here. Like let's say for example, I've got Claude OS and I want to understand what does this project do. I can actually click that, come down here, and I can connect it to Hermes, and I can just have a conversation directly in my Claude code operating system about anything, and it's all fully connected from Hermes agent to Claude code to this incredible Claude code operating system. And it just lets us connect everything

00:06:56 - 00:07:40
together. And when we put it inside the operating system, as I say, Graph 5 makes the map, and the Agentyc OS makes it always on, shared, and conversational. And here's why it's so important. We have now one shared brain with all of this stuff, right? So, Hermes, Claude code, and the dashboard, they read one registry registry and graph once. What does that mean? Let's say that you're doing work at your laptop on Claude code, then your mobile, you can now actually connect this with

00:07:18 - 00:08:02
open Claude and Hermes, and we're all reading off the same page because it's already been done in one system. It's a map that you can talk to. So, whenever you want to understand anything about any project, you can literally just go to this operating system, select the thing you want to chat to, and then have a full conversation with it, and it's all completely connected. You can also import any GitHub repo you want to. So, let's say for example, I grab one from GitHub right now. So, this is a is a

00:07:40 - 00:08:25
design one that I made. Let's say I just simply come down, I copy the code, I come straight back over there to our beautiful operating system. I can come down here to add project at the top. I literally just drop it in, I click on graph it, it costs us beautifully zero dollars, and now this is essentially running graph it fine on our computer, and now we have power design, which explains everything that goes on in power design. Here's a brand style MD, here's a responsive behavior, here's our

00:08:03 - 00:08:46
layout, and now if I want to, I can literally just talk to Hermes agent about it or Claude code. That's how powerful this is. And now if I want to, I can literally just have a conversation with power design straight away. For example, if you're using the Hermes app, I can also come down and say, "Hey there dude, could you use the graph it skill to tell me about the Claude code operating system and how it works?" And our Hermes itself can go ahead and actually use all that information if you

00:08:25 - 00:09:12
give it the ability, as I show you right now. I come over here for example, I've got a specific prompt that you literally just come down, you show this prompt right here, you copy it, and this is the full instructions of how to connect everything together, and that will work flawlessly. Or if you're building your own agent operating system, I would recommend that you get some kind of dashboard like this, so you can literally clearly and easily and visually just dip into different repos and very quickly add it to your computer

00:08:48 - 00:09:33
to actually understand and query those files without wasting any time. And so the idea here is that it's wired into everything, okay? You basically you can feed your oven out of your memory, Hermes can ask everything from Telegram, which is fantastic because it can just automatically reach out to you and ask you questions. And so ideally we want to take this further by having one brand that's kind of shared by everything together. Graph it fine isn't Claude code, Hermes, and your own operating

00:09:11 - 00:10:00
system, so we can connect everything together into one beautiful system. And so one of the biggest benefits of this is you're not going to spend a I could say a god telling tokens actually querying and understanding any new code base. It is going to give you more accurate answers as well. So if you want to take something like this or any file or project that you see and you want to do certain amends to it, you're going to have less time wasted on iterating it because Claude can actually understand

00:09:35 - 00:10:18
what the code base is. And likewise now you can go back and ask Claude the same question. I'd like to show you how it integrates with every software, just so you know exactly how to connect everything together. Having come down here now, for example, it's gone down and explained the Claude code operating system. Explained the relationships, the nodes, how it all connects together, which is fantastic because basically Hermes Agent is also connected to Claude code, but again, you can do just

00:09:57 - 00:10:44
anything you want to. You can just run it directly on Claude code and only have it here and just speak to Claude code. Any of these options are possible, but now we have a beautiful visual interface to actually just make it easy and understand, rather than jumping from chat window to chat window. Now, Graphyte is incredible, but if you're not using an agentic operating system, you're leaving so much value on the table. So, the next thing we need to do is learn how to set one of those up by

00:10:19 - 00:10:23
watching this video right here.