00:00:00 - 00:00:55
Claude code agentic systems are the future and unlock capabilities that 99% of people don't even know exist. And in this video, I'll show exactly how to build a visual intelligence system for Claude. This shows you every insight for skills, memory, cost, and how much money it's making you and your clients. And this intelligent system even uses data to improve itself and help you save more time and make more money, literally getting you light-years ahead of your competitors. And if you're new, my

00:00:27 - 00:01:13
name's Jack. I built my last AI startup with the government customers. Now I'm building my own AI businesses and I just show you the stuff that actually works. So if you haven't already, grab that beautiful coffee. Let's dive straight in. So this is the Claude code operating system. I'm going to tell you exactly why you need to have one and how you build one that looks something a little bit like this and how it all functions together because basically it carries all the information data that you didn't

00:00:50 - 00:01:46
even know that you physically needed. And I'm going to go through exactly what all this is, how this all connects together, and why it's important. So let's think about this for a second. The Claude code operating system. What does it work and what do I mean when I say Claude code operating system? So the general idea of the OS, the operating system, is that we connect your world digitally in one single location instead of having separate disconnected pockets of intelligence that are not basically

00:01:19 - 00:02:07
thriving together and bringing one you need overview. What we do is bring it all together. So we have all the models that you're using, everything you're connected to, all of your individual memory systems, local Obsidian rag, um get you think of it capacity rag, pine cone, all this stuff. All your skills, your usage, all this intelligence together in one simple place that gives you and unlocks things that you couldn't really unlock outside of that. So it's one place for everything to flow

00:01:43 - 00:02:33
together across everything from Claude chat GPT codex, Gemini, deep sea, it doesn't matter what you're in. This brings everything together and actually is the future of how we'll use models. So um you can't see your own AI operating system. So there's a lot of stuff that you guess at, right? Like, what did I spend this month in tokens? Where can I save? How much money am I making with this stuff? What does it look like? Um when will I run out? Uh what skills are worth my time? Um is the

00:02:08 - 00:02:54
model using outdated information and memory? What is connected? Am I on the right tier? Um what are the opportunity gaps based on the conversations you're having with models? So, what's really cool about the self-improving memory system is it like if you're talking about stuff with an AI and you don't have a skill, this will actually recommend to you specifics that you should be doing based on your conversations. It's like a meta skill and it's kind of linked to Claude's

00:02:31 - 00:03:14
dreaming feature that they're going to be releasing. I'm going to show you how I think this takes it a cool step further using those kinds of principles. Um and what will this unlock? It's like intelligence about how you're using everything with AI, which is really freaking cool. And the reason for this is that every builder, myself, you, we'll build slightly differently, right? And therefore, our intelligence should be slightly different. What would be great for Jack might be different than

00:02:52 - 00:03:39
what's great for you and your friend. So, realistically, we need to get a good view of how you're using the models, what models you're using, where is your data, what's your intelligence. And based on your own unique situation, we can find specific recommendations to help you take it to the next level. And what's really cool about this whole system, by the way, is when you onboard clients, you can get this specifically for them. And you can see ROI, how much time they're saving based on their

00:03:16 - 00:04:02
skills, right? The skills that they're using in their system, um all that beautiful information when we understand how much their time is worth. So, it's really, really cool to to build this up for clients to get. So, when we think about this, realistically, there are six pillars that make the operating system in my situation. And effectively, what they are is the models that you're using, uh the plans that you're on. So, for example, I use ChatGPT, but am I doing that with an API or am I just

00:03:38 - 00:04:25
paying 20 bucks a month? Um we've got memory, so how we store memory? Have we got it locally? Are we storing it in Obsidian? Are we storing it in Pine Cam? The skills that you're using uh on a day-to-day basis, your knowledge systems, and again, how we connect it all together. So, the idea here with these pillars is we want to stop overpaying. So, how are you being more efficient? What's really cool here is we'll understand what models you're using for what tasks and say, "Hey." And

00:04:02 - 00:04:40
give you dynamic recommendations to say, "Look, you should move to this model, you should move to that model." Um you're going to know what's always left. You're going to be able to find outdated memories that aren't servicing you anymore, that you're not referencing. Um you can kill the skills that aren't doing anything for you. Um and basically, just like really improve and level up everything together. And you're always going to know what's actually left. really helps you understand and

00:04:21 - 00:05:04
manage your token limit so that you're not running out all the time, right? It's like no nasty surprises. You can see this in one cool, holistic dashboard. And by the way, if you do want this full course, I'm releasing it inside my community this V1 alongside the full cloud code. Masterclass it covers everything from power features down to memory system apps, build everything, design systems. So, I'll put a link down below if you want to go and grab the the V1, but you'll also

00:04:42 - 00:05:31
understand how to actually uh build and what kind of goes in the information for this. So, effectively, what we want to do is capture how much money you're actually spending on AI on a monthly basis. And what we can do is on the skills, okay, is understand the skills that you have, and it knows this because it knows where the skills live on your laptop, and I'll show you what that looks like in a second. What it can actually do is figure out how much you're actually saving in your time and

00:05:07 - 00:05:55
money based on those skills and what they actually drive for you, but I'll I'll show you more on that in a second. You've got your net ROI, which is how much this is making you minus your cost for things. We can see the subscriptions that we've got like a Claude Pro Max, ChatGPT, Open Routers. And you can even see step-by-step your current limits for all of the models that you're currently using, Claude, ChatGPT, Open Routers, etc. Now, what's really freaking cool, and my favorite thing about this that I

00:05:31 - 00:06:22
built on this, is the dreaming feature. So, you have access to so much data on your computer, right? Like your usage, um conversations you're having with AI, but no one's really looking macro level at like all of your thousand chats and all of your usage and saying, "Well, what can we learn from this? Like how can we actually be better? And what this does every single day, whether you touch it with your hands like this, whether on the beach sipping margaritas, this finds improvements for you automatically. And

00:05:57 - 00:06:40
this refreshes every single day, and it also gives you a suggested ROI calculator in terms of how much time you'll save. So, for example, you may say here, "Hey, your video scripts memory is 2 and 1/2 weeks behind your work, right?" Cool. Okay, that's an interesting one. I can mark that as done. Awesome. Or we can go to the next one. You're paying Opus prices for jobs that High Q can do. Interesting. And why is it suggesting this? All the information and it specifically has

00:06:19 - 00:07:05
action on it. It'll show you stuff like you did the same competitor research four times this week. Interesting. So, I'm duplicating work. Um titled intro audio and together make it So, you you get the idea. It's basically showing you dynamic things every single day based on how you're using AI on your computer and whether I'm using it in Claude or the terminal, this brings it all together, which is really freaking cool. Then we've got all of our skills that we can check out and use. And we have our

00:06:41 - 00:07:22
knowledge system, which is cool. And this knowledge system is freaking epic. I have to say so myself, because what you can really do here is you can I can see everything that I'm connected to. And if I open up my knowledge system real quick, you'll see when I come down here, I can actually disable certain features. So, if I just want to look at Obsidian, for example, I can see the stuff that I've got in here that I'm like playing around with. I can bring up my local memory system, and then

00:07:02 - 00:07:49
obviously just bring in Pinecone to get a full overview of what this looks like. And if I want to take a different view to understand what's happening, I can see Now you get my Pinecone memory system. Basically, it's like a visual overview of every memory that I'm using local, Pinecone, and Subbase is connected in in one really nice crisp view and how they're all related to each other. And what we also added in here as well, by the way, is our recent activities. So, if I vectorize

00:07:25 - 00:08:07
information, if I like which just fancy way of saying store new stuff, I actually get a breakdown here of what's happening with everything that I'm doing, which is great. So, it's just good to get nice little bits of overview on that. So, you're probably thinking, "Jack, that looks really freaking cool. How do I actually set this up and use it on my computer?" Well, let me show you exactly how that works. Now, obviously, if in the group, you can just go to your Google and grab this from the classroom

00:07:46 - 00:08:31
if you like, so you can rock and roll. But, what I've included in this is a onboarding wizard, and this will really explain to you how you set this thing up. So, we look at Claude OS, and we're going to go ahead and stop the whole thing. So, effectively, what Well, what this one does that I built is it auto-detects all of the different models and systems running on your computer. So, if it finds Open Claude, Claude Code, Claude Desktop, Open Router, whatever it is, it will automatically

00:08:08 - 00:08:55
show you these, and you can toggle them on or off, so you can pretty much pick the ones that you have, which is freaking fantastic. So, first you need to do is basically help it understand where do the models live on your computer, and what are you actually using right now. So, that's kind of the first part to understand, like, what is the model architecture like in your world. And it should be able to do this, but you definitely want to prompt it this way. Obviously, this onboarding wizard does it for you, but you get the

00:08:31 - 00:09:17
idea. This one's really cool. Where do we store that data? Well, this freaking knows, cuz it actually has access to it. So, if the next question is, of the things I use, where's all of the stuff living? Basically, which is crazy. Once you've got that, where do you keep your memories? So, this one knows it can basically it's detected I've got my Obsidian vault and my Pinecone index, cuz it's pretty smart and knows what's going on. But, you can add custom folders. Basically, the the fourth step

00:08:55 - 00:09:44
is memory, which is where does your world live? Like, is it in Obsidian? Is it a Pinecone? Is it in a different Is it SQL? Is it in Superbase? Where is it? So, we can actually grab those memories and start to add context. Once you've done that, um this one's really cool and for me, I think it's really important. We can't know the ROI unless we have an idea of what your time is worth, or the employee whose job you are enhancing is worth. So, you can literally write down how much your time is worth um like

00:09:19 - 00:10:04
this, and you can see actually it'll tell you based on the skills you've used in the past X number of days, or once you create it, how much skills you've used, what your actual time saving actually is. When that's done, we bring down to the the dreaming system. So, again, what this actually looks like is eight different eight different kind of services, which I had to look up. So, the eight dimensions of dream intelligence is what you sleep, dreams read your stack and services what's

00:09:42 - 00:10:30
worth your attention. So, the idea is AI should work for us like even when we're not thinking about it. So, it does conversation analysis so read your last 7 days of user messages and bad some clusters by intent, flags any tasks you've done manually three more times so it can it can suggest turning it into a skill. And this is something that I picked up with Hermes. Do you remember the Hermes agent was really cool, right? Because it basically had this amazing skill of it if I identified that you if

00:10:06 - 00:10:50
something should be a skill, it would turn it into a skill. Um so, I just built it into this operating system and and this by the way is by no means perfect. I just kind of sat down with coffees and thought I went crazy to be honest with you. Uh cuz I I love building stuff like this. But that's the whole point like it should kind of have this macro level overview of what you're doing and how you can improve it. We got cost intelligence so inspecting every model call looks for high up to usage on

00:10:27 - 00:11:18
simple work, uh low cash hit rates, over side contacts, recommends uh where you can be saving when based on what you're doing. Then you got skill performance that tracks each skill's last used day like if you've got antiquated skills you're not using, is an opportunity to improve that. Uh memory health, um session hygiene like when it's going to be on tokens, workflow patterns, um external opportunities. So, it's looking actively for new skills or new updates that might fit your world really well

00:10:53 - 00:11:38
like you know if you're building good design systems for example, this is a free resource that I built that might be useful for you. Um and basically all this does if I just pull this up right now you can see, um just basically codifies what brilliant design looks like. So, if there other design repos I would love to know about them. So, it's good for me if I'm doing a lot of design work with Claude uh or ChatGPT or Codex so it can actually surface those things to me and tell me what I need. And also

00:11:15 - 00:11:58
it looks at business outcomes and tries to understand context and what you're focusing it on. Then we've got basically you just set the frequencies so once you've kind of designed your own dreaming system which is like how do I want it to think, what kind of recommendations do I want it to give me, you codify that sort of stuff. Then you have the morning and evening so how frequently when do you want it to run? Um, web search during dream is good because I like to personally enrich with

00:11:37 - 00:12:21
new things. So, this is like, "Jack, you know, you're spending quite a lot of time on this particular problem. Let me go and get some data for you. Let me go and find out what the experts are saying about this thing. I I personally want to know that information." Um, and then there's this design thing which is creating cool ass images every time. Of course, we want that. I've got I mean, that there's it's not going to add any value, but I just think the experience is important. So, that's really cool.

00:11:59 - 00:12:39
And again, you can actually add in your OpenAI key here and there, so it can actually do the generation for you as and when you need to. Then pretty much after that, you're all set. So, this one here, if you're using this wizard, you basically just copy this and throw it in, but it's actually linked up anyway, so it will do that for you. And then essentially once that's done, you go through and then you have the dashboard ready to basically look at everything live for you. In addition to your

00:12:19 - 00:13:01
subscriptions, you've got your token API equivalent, which is if you had used this with API, this is what you would actually physically be paying. And then what I thought was really interesting as well on this outside of the memory system is getting an overview of systems I'm plugged into, my connected knowledge system. So, like, actually what's everything I've got? Like, what is powering this dashboard right now? And if there's something that shouldn't be there, we can just add that in

00:12:40 - 00:13:28
basically. All my scheduled tasks, which are awesome. It then gives me an overview of my sessions per day, like how much I'm actually using it. And then skills that I'm using most likely at the bottom. And then on the settings, you can go through the wizard. And then because we've now got this rise of personal AI agents, what I've also done to simplify this is you can add in your Hermes agent or your Open Claw system actually within this Claude operating system, so everything actually lives

00:13:04 - 00:13:47
within within one roof essentially. Just making it like way easier to use. And so, Anthropic did ship dreaming, but basically it's research previews. It's available now in research preview. Developers can request access through the Claude platform, but guys, we don't wait for anything. We go ahead and we don't wait for Anthropic to release anything. We just go ahead and start building it. When it does release, it's cloud only for managed agents, overnight memory pass, and it kind of sees

00:13:25 - 00:14:14
everything. So, I think it's a fantastic idea they've got and one I'd just use it not just for Claude, but like everything they do on every app. Like it shouldn't matter whether you're using Codex or Anti-Gravity or Claude or the terminal. It's all needs to be connected into one into a memory system intelligence, right? So, we've got eight buckets, four cards, one night. Again, our dream engine or our kind of dream OS that we've got building here takes conversations, cost skills, memory

00:13:50 - 00:14:31
sessions, workflow, external information, and business contacts into a beautiful dream machine to give you four high-leverage recommendations. Um just like that. It's that freaking simple. As you can see, it's got all the different bits here you can download and use. And obviously, if you're building your own, feel free to imagine anything you like, but I just personally think these AI are really sick. And this is just connected to the biggest trend that we're going to see and you have to get

00:14:11 - 00:15:00
your head around, which is going to be the visualization layer of AI. As these models get better at creating things, the question becomes, "How do I see the thing? What does it physically look like?" So, these are gentic operating system, these dashboards are only going to be more important, especially if you need to help clients or yourself understand what is the value of what we're doing. And because we're in cross so many subscriptions and so many apps these days, we want to centralize that

00:14:35 - 00:14:58
and bring that into one place. It's really important. Knowing how to build the incredible operating systems is one thing, but building these super powerful skills is something completely else. And we can learn that by watching this video right here.